Publications based on this Thesis
==================================

1. **Pushkar Dasika**, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, and Kausik Majumdar. `"Dual Channel FET for High Current and Low Contact Resistance Transistors" <https://google.com>`_, *Under Preparation*.
2. **Pushkar Dasika**, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, and Kausik Majumdar. `“Hot electron engineering in layered heterojunction for efficient infrared detection” <https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/acsnano.4c14983>`_, *ACS Nano, 19(14), pp.13752-13759*.
3. Suman Chatterjee, Medha Dandu, **Pushkar Dasika**, Rabindra Biswas, Sarthak Das, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, Varun Raghunathan, and Kausik Majumdar. `"Harmonic to anharmonic tuning of moiré potential leading to unconventional Stark effect and giant dipolar repulsion in WS₂/WSe₂ heterobilayer." <https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-023-40329-3>`_ *Nature Communications 14, no. 1 (2023): 4679*.
4. Hitesh S., **Pushkar Dasika**, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, and Kausik Majumdar. `"Integration of 3-Level MoS multibridge channel FET with 2D layered contact and gate dielectric." <https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9893189>`_ *IEEE Electron Device Letters 43, no. 11 (2022): 1993-1996*.
5. Pushkar Dasika, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, and Kausik Majumdar. `Electrically Self-Aligned, Reconfigurable Test Structure Using WSe₂/SnSe₂ Heterojunction for TFET and MOSFET. <https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9837889>`_ *IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices 69, no. 9 (2022): 5377-5381.*
6. Medha Dandu, Garima Gupta, **Pushkar Dasika**, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, and Kausik Majumdar. `"Electrically tunable localized versus delocalized intralayer moiré excitons and trions in a twisted MoS₂ bilayer." <https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acsnano.2c00145>`_ *ACS Nano 16, no. 6 (2022): 8983-8992.*
7. **Pushkar Dasika**, Debadarshini Samantaray, Krishna Murali, Nithin Abraham, Kenji Watanbe, Takashi Taniguchi, N. Ravishankar, and Kausik Majumdar. `Contact‐Barrier Free, High Mobility, Dual‐Gated Junctionless Transistor Using Tellurium Nanowire. <https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/adfm.202006278>`_ *Advanced Functional Materials 31, no. 13 (2021): 2006278.*
